---
title: Functions
permalink: /docs/2-1/
---

## Python Reading
- Read the chapter entitled [Functions](https://runestone.academy/ns/books/published/thinkcspy/Functions/functions.html).

## Key Ideas
- Be able to write a function.
- Be able to call a function.
- Understand function parameters.
- Understand the difference between a fruitful function and a non-fruitful function.
- Understand the difference between a local variable and a global variable.

## Active Learning
- Look at [randomIntegers.py](../lessons/code/randomIntegers.py) and [circles.py](../lessons/code/circles.py), and be able to say what each line does.
- Complete the [missing function](../lessons/code/evaluate.py) such that the following output might be produced when the program is run.
```
Course Evaluation Program
-------------------------
Enter course to evaluate (e.g. CSCI 127): CSCI 127
Enter your topic interest rating [0-100]: 100
Enter your difficulty estimation rating [0-100]: 45
Enter your instructor assessment rating [0-100]: 95
CSCI 127 rating:  80.0
Highly recommended!
```

## More Practice
- Work [Exercise 10](https://runestone.academy/ns/books/published/thinkcspy/Functions/Exercises.html).
- Improve [house.py](../lessons/code/house.py) by rewriting it using appropriate functions.

## Challenge to Prepare for Program 1
- If you were to roll two dice, the probability of rolling two sixes is 1/36 = 0.0278. If you were to roll three dice, the probability of rolling two sixes is 15/216 = 0.0694. As you continue to add dice, the probability may increase, but at some point, that probability will once again descrease as you have too many dice and the probability of rolling more than 2 sixes increases.
  - How many dice would you have to roll in order to optimize the probability of rolling **exactly** two 6s?
- Download [optimize_sixes.py](../lessons/code/optimize_sixes.py) and complete the missing functions in the code. Make sure you change the global variable to a large number (at least 10 million) in order to make your simulation more accurate.