---
title: Strings
permalink: /docs/2-4/
---

## Python Reading
- Read the chapter entitled [Strings](https://runestone.academy/ns/books/published/thinkcspy/Strings/toctree.html).

## Key Ideas
- **str** type
- String concatenation operator: +
- Substring operators: in, not in
- String indexing, e.g. if mascot = "hawks", `mascot[2]`
- String comparison: <, <=, = =, >, >=, !=
- String slicing, e.g. `mascot[1:3]`
- Common methods:
    - Determining length: len
    - Related to case: upper, lower, capitalize
    - Related to whitespace: strip, lstrip, rstrip
    - Related to formatting: center, ljust, rjust
    - Related to finding substrings: find, rfind, index, rindex
    - Related to counting occurrences: count
- Useful constants:
    - `string.ascii_lowercase`
    - `string.ascii_uppercase`
    - `string.digits`
    - `string.punctuation`
- [Online Documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html?highlight=isdigit#string-methods)

## Active Learning
- Construct simple examples in the Python shell to illustrate that you understand the concepts above.
- Write a program that implements a Caesar cipher on lowercase letters. For example, if the key is 2, each letter is replaced by the letter that comes 2 positions later in the alphabet. For example, "a" becomes "c" and "z" becomes "b".
- Download and experiment with [demo.py](../lessons/code/demo.py) until you understand it fully. 
  - Why can the alternate_case function be called with either one or two arguments? 
  - How would you explain what the alternate_case function does to someone who knows nothing about computer science?
- Write a function named `double_integer` that repeatedly asks the user to enter an integer until a non-negative integer is entered. The function should then return twice the integer's value. For example, the user might enter "apple", then "3.14", then "-34", then "34". In this example, the function should return 68.
