---
title: Lists 3
permalink: /docs/3-31/
---

## Python Reading
- Read the chapter entitled [Lists](https://runestone.academy/ns/books/published/thinkcspy/Lists/toctree.html) from section "Nested Lists" through section "Glossary".

## Key Ideas
- Lists can be nested, e.g. `[["Montana", 1015165], ["Wyoming", 582658]]`
- A list can be created from a string
  - `declaration = "Four score and seven years ago"`
  - `declaration.split()`
  - `declaration.split("and")`
- A string can be created from a list
  - `seuss = ["green", "eggs", "and", "ham"]`
  - `glue = "*"`
  - `glue.join(seuss)`
- Sequences can be converted into lists, e.g. `list("Bozeman Hawks")`
- A **tuple** is like a **list**, except that it is immutable, e.g. `today = ("Monday", "February", 13)`

## Active Learning
- This [page](https://www.enchantedlearning.com/usa/states/population.shtml) contains 2013 census information when the total population of the U.S. was 316,128,839.
- The file [nested-lists.py](../lessons/code/nested-lists.py) contains information about the 10 most populous states.
- Add a pure function to nested-lists.py that calculates and returns the total population of the information passed into it. Print this value after the function returns it.
Modify the program to also print the percentage of the U.S. population that lives in the 10 most populated states.
- Modify the **populations** variable to include information about whether each state is landlocked. Consider a landlocked state to be one that does not touch the Atlantic Ocean, the Pacific Ocean or the Gulf of Mexico.
- Modify the program to also calculate and print the percentage of the population in the 10 most populated states that live in a landlocked state.
- Time permitting, make other interesting enhancements.