---
title: Object Oriented Basics 1
permalink: /docs/4-4/
---

## Python Reading
- Read the chapter entitled [Classes and Objects - the Basics](https://runestone.academy/ns/books/published/thinkcspy/ClassesBasics/toctree.html) from section "Object-Oriented Programming" through section "User Defined Classes"

## Key Ideas
- Thus far, we have used the **procedural paradigm** to solve problems. With the procedural paradigm, the focus on solving a problem is on the actions. In Python, these actions are implemented with functions.
- Python also supports the **object-oriented programming paradigm**. With the OOP paradigm, the focus on solving a problem is on the objects. An object contains both data (called the state) and functionality (called **methods**).
- Example: Consider the [turtle](https://docs.python.org/3/library/turtle.html#module-turtle) module. This module is implemented using object-oriented programming.
  - What are three methods that each turtle has? 
  - What are three aspects of a turtle's state?

## In-Class Activity
- Take a look at [date.py](../lessons/code/date.py).
- What are the state variables of the Date class?
- What are the methods of the Date class?
- Terminology: The __init__ method is called a **constructor**.
- Terminology: The get_month, get_day and get_year methods are called **reader methods**.
- Terminology: The set_day method is called a **writer method**.
- Terminology: Another name for a state variable is an **instance variable**.
- Are there any aspects of date.py that you do not understand?

## Active Learning
- Create a class named **Pokemon** that has the following instance variables: *number*, *name* and *combat_points*. Add a constructor method that enables a new Pokémon to be created. Add methods named `get_name`, `get_number`, `get_combat_points` and `set_combat_points`. Write a program that utilizes the functionality of the Pokémon class in its entirety.
- Look at the [solution to Lab 7 using objects](../lessons/code/lab7_objects.py) instead of dictionaries. Make sure you understand how data from the file is used to initialize the data members of each object and how we placed each object into a list.